# Ayra: Charter, Purpose, and Principles

## Ayra Charter

The following sections (Purpose and Principles) collectively represent our initial proposals for the Ayra Charter.&#x20;

### Ayra Purpose Statement

| The purpose of the Ayra Association is to drive the growth of safe, secure, interoperable, and sustainable digital trust ecosystems that connect and enrich our world. |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

To achieve this, Ayra will:

* Establish a neutral nonprofit organization that follows our [Guiding Principles](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lF8KoXVXcsGetBfLXpT_IuP_AGFm7cgoaEz_VTJWPB0/edit#heading=h.rthsolgjvodw) to represent, serve, and advocate for the shared interests of all people, organizations, and ecosystems within the network.
* Establish and govern a layer of [digital public infrastructure](https://www.undp.org/digital/digital-public-infrastructure) that interconnects digital trust ecosystems, enabling parties to form authentic, private, and secure digital relationships that encourage the growth and value of the decentralized data economy.

### Ayra Guiding Principles

To achieve this purpose, Ayra operates by a set of guiding principles:

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="230.375"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Transparent by Default</strong></td><td>Ayra shall follow transparent processes whenever possible, communicating the “who”, "when", "why" of how decisions are reached, in order to engender trust both among members and with the larger community.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Equitable Participation</strong></td><td>Ayra shall be open to all parties who have a direct stake in its mission; it shall give equitable representation to all such stakeholders; and it shall not give preference to any single stakeholder or group of stakeholders.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Nonprofit</strong> </td><td>Ayra will be a nonprofit that will provide services to our members and the broader community. It will however be self-sustaining through registrations, memberships, and other services and funding mechanisms.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Non-competitive</strong></td><td>The purpose of Ayra is to solve problems and provide infrastructure that no member can adequately or fairly provide alone. If a member or a group of members can provide a function consistent with the policies of the Ayra GF as or more efficiently and effectively as Ayra, that function should be left to the members.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Inclusive &#x26; Diverse</strong></td><td>Membership will be open to representatives for public authorities, private sector companies, and individuals across the globe; it will foster inclusivity and seek to serve a highly diverse membership of individuals and organizations of all sizes, geographies, industries, and use cases.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Independent &#x26; neutral</strong></td><td>As an organization and as an infrastructure, Ayra shall serve as a neutral, independent party that serves all members equally and shows favour towards none.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Respects ecosystem sovereignty</strong></td><td>Ayra shall not interfere with the internal governance or operations of participating digital trust ecosystems; they are sovereign over their own governance and operations.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Ensures individual sovereignty</strong></td><td>Design, governance, and operation of Ayra Infrastructure shall ensure that individuals are first-class peers with all other stakeholders and that their rights to security, privacy, portability, and agency over their personal data and digital assets are protected.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Protects security and privacy</strong></td><td>The design and operation of Ayra infrastructure shall protect and promote the security and privacy of member data in all Ayra-enabled interactions.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Decentralized</strong></td><td>Ayra shall facilitate direct peer-to-peer relationships between members and enable the private permissioned exchange of verifiable data only between <a href="https://www.identityblog.com/?p=352">justifiable parties</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Agile and chaordic</strong></td><td>As a governing body, Ayra Association shall be as lean, simple, and decentralized as possible—following Dee Hock’s <a href="https://chaordic.io/blog/what-is-in-a-name/">principles for chaordic organizations</a>.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Cross-ecosystem</strong></td><td>Aya Association shall define policies and procedures to assist with inter-ecosystem disputes &#x26; accountability (“international waters”).</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Standards-based</strong></td><td>Ayra infrastructure will be based on open standards and conformance profiles for maximum interoperability. <a href="https://open-stand.org/infographic-the-5-core-principles-of-openstand/">See the Open Stand Principles</a>.</td></tr></tbody></table>

